#summary Steps to setup a sample feed, adapter configuration along with database configuration details

<h1>Database Configuration for a Feed</h1>
 
This document describes how to create a feed configuration, adpater configuration and configure database settings.
----
<h2>Contents</h2>
<wiki:toc max_depth="4" />
----

= Creating a Mapping File in iBATIS Format =

In the {{{conf/feedserver/sqlmap/}}} folder, create a mapping file for iBATIS to map Java objects to database queries and results on the table and view.

For example: {{{contact.xml}}} mapping file:

{{{
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE sqlMap
    PUBLIC "-//ibatis.apache.org//DTD SQL Map 2.0//EN"
    "http://ibatis.apache.org/dtd/sql-map-2.dtd">

<sqlMap namespace="test">
  <resultMap id="result-map" class="java.util.HashMap">
    <result property="id" column="id"/>
     <result property="firstName" column="first_name"/>
     <result property="lastName" column="last_name"/>
    <result property="email" column="email"/>
    <result property="rating" column="rating"/>
  </resultMap>

  <select id="contact-get-feed" resultMap="result-map">
    select * from Contact
  </select>
 
  <select id="contact-get-entry" resultMap="result-map">
    select * from Contact where id = #value#
  </select>

  <delete id="contact-delete-entry" >
    delete from Contact where id = #value#
  </delete>
 
  <insert id="contact-insert-entry" parameterClass="map">
    insert into Contact (first_name,last_name,email,rating) values
        (#firstName#,#lastName#,#email#,#rating:NUMERIC#)
     <selectKey keyProperty="id" resultClass="long">
      <!-- For MySQL:   SELECT LAST_INSERT_ID()-->
      <!-- For Derby: --> values IDENTITY_VAL_LOCAL()
      <!-- For PostGRE SQL: SELECT currval('"contact_id_seq"')  -->
    </selectKey>
  </insert>

  <update id="contact-update-entry" parameterClass="map">
    update Contact set last_name = #lastName#, first_name = #firstName#,
        email = #email#, rating = #rating:NUMERIC# where id = #id#
  </update>
</sqlMap>
 }}}

<b>Note</b>: All the {{{id}}} attributes in the previous XML file use the following naming conventions:

  * To get a feed, id=`<feedname>`-get-feed
  * To get an entry, id=`<feedname>`-get-entry
  * To insert an entry, id=`<feedname>`-insert-entry
  * To delete an entry, id=`<feedname>`-delete-entry
  * To update an entry, id=`<feedname>`-update-entry

The name of the file should be `<feedname>` for easy mapping and understanding.
----
= Creating an XML File with Database Connection Parameters for iBATIS =
The following example creates the {{{sqlmap.xml}}} file:

{{{
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE sqlMapConfig     
    PUBLIC "-//ibatis.apache.org//DTD SQL Map Config 2.0//EN"     
    "http://ibatis.apache.org/dtd/sql-map-config-2.dtd">
<sqlMapConfig>
  <properties resource="database/dbConfig.properties"/>

  <typeHandler javaType="string" jdbcType="NUMERIC"
      callback="com.google.feedserver.ibatisCallbackHandlers.StringToNumericCallback" />

  <!-- Configure a built-in transaction manager.  If you're using an
       app server, you probably want to use its transaction manager
       and a managed datasource -->
  <transactionManager type="JDBC" commitRequired="false">
   
    <dataSource type="SIMPLE">
      <property name="JDBC.Driver" value="${JDBC.Driver}"/>
      <property name="JDBC.ConnectionURL" value="${JDBC.ConnectionURL}"/>
      <property name="JDBC.Username" value="${JDBC.Username}"/>
      <property name="JDBC.Password" value="${JDBC.Password}"/>
      <property name="Pool.MaximumActiveConnections" value="${Pool.MaximumActiveConnections}"/>
      <property name="Pool.MaximumIdleConnections" value="${Pool.MaximumIdleConnections}"/>
      <property name="Pool.MaximumCheckoutTime" value="${Pool.MaximumCheckoutTime}"/>
      <property name="Pool.TimeToWait" value="${Pool.TimeToWait}"/>
    </dataSource>
  </transactionManager>

</sqlMapConfig>
}}}

The {{{database/dbConfig.properties}}} file contains the actual values, which are also used by the Ant build script to create the database.

The reference to {{{contact.xml}}} is inserted by the wrapper at runtime as shown below:
{{{
<sqlMap resource="feedserver/sqlmap/contact.xml"/>
}}}

The value {{{sqlmap/contact.xml}}} is specified as part of feed configuration as explained in the following sections.

= Creating an Adapter Properties File =

Create an adapter properties file in {{{conf/feedserver/{namespace}/Adapter/}}} dir.

For example: {{{IBatisAdapter.properties}}}

{{{
   className=com.google.feedserver.samples.adapters.IBatisCollectionAdapter
   isWrapper=false

   className is the fully qualified name of the adapter class that will interact with the datasource to perform CRUD operations
   isWrapper indicates whether the given adapter is a wrapper or simply an adapter
}}}
----
= Creating an Adapter Configuration Properties File =
Create an adapter configuration properties file in the {{{conf/feedserver/{namespace}/AdapterConfig/}}} folder.

For example: {{{jdbcAdapterConfig.properties}}}

{{{
   type=IBatisAdapter
   configValueType=xml
   configValue=@sqlmap.xml
   mixins=@IBatisAdapterWrapper
}}}

Attributes:
  * {{{type}}} indicates the name of the target adapter stored under {{{conf/feedserver/{namespace}/Adapter/}}} directory

  * {{{configValueType}}} indicates the kind of content value that will be specified as {{{configValue}}}

  * {{{configValue}}} is the configuration value used by the adapter class to interact with the datasource.
  The content type (xml, text, etc) should be as specified by 'configValueType'.

   If the value starts with '@', it implies that the value following '@' should be treated
   as the name of the file whose contents will be treated as configValue.     
   The feed config store will have the responsibility of reading the
   file contents and setting them as the config value while loading the
   adapter config values.

  * {{{mixins}}} is a pointer to the wrapper configurations to be applied over the target adapter
----
= Creating a Wrapper Config =
Create an XML file under {{{conf/feedserver/{namespace}/AdapterConfig/}}} directory

For example: {{{IBatisAdapterWrapper.xml}}}

{{{
   <?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
   <mixin>
      <wrapperName>IBatisAdapterWrapper</wrapperName>
      <wrapperConfig></wrapperConfig>
   </mixin>
}}}

Attributes:

  * {{{wrapperName}}} is the pointer to wrapper stored under {{{conf/feedserver/{namespace}/Adapter/}}} directory

  * {{{wrapperConfig}}} is any data that the wrapper will use

Create a {{{IBatisAdapterWrapper.properties}}} under {{{conf/feedserver/{namespace}/Adapter/}}} directory having the wrapper details.

{{{
   className=com.google.feedserver.wrappers.IBatisAdapterWrapper
   configValue=""
   configType=XML
   isWrapper=true
}}}

Attributes:

  * {{{className}}} is the fully qualified name of the wrapper class

  * {{{isWrapper=true}}} identifies this adapter as wrapper

----
= Creating a Feed Properties File =
Create a feed properties file in {{{conf/feedserver/{namespace}/FeedConfig/}}} folder.

For example: {{{contact.properties}}}

{{{
   subUri=contact
   title=title for any sample feed
   author=Google QA
   adapterName=jdbcAdapterConfig
   configValue=@sqlmap/contact.xml
}}}

Attributes:

  * {{{adapterName}}} is the name of the adapter configuration file.
  This attribute acts as the link between the feed and adapter configurations.

  The feed config store loads adapter values automatically for the specified adapter name while loading the feed configuration values.

  * {{{configValue}}} is the value specific to the feed but will part of the adapter {{{configValue}}}.
  If a value starts with '@',  the value after '@' is the name of the file. The feed config store either adds the contents of file to the adapter 'configValue' or adds the name of the file.